---
layout: default
title: Texts
---

Here are some English and Swedish texts that I've written.

h2. Piloten

Drinken ska blandas
Planet ska landas
Middagen ska handlas
Kroppen ska förvandlas

h2. Hustomtarnas julbord

*Original:* Viktor Rydberg -- Tomten
*Kommentar:* Välkomsthälsning vid Epsilons julbord 2008. Vi var på La Stazione i Partille.

Midvinternattens tystnadsed
bryts av ett sorl från stationen.
Lilleputt klingar i glas med sked,
harklar sig, sätter tonen:
"Bänka er, pysslingar, smörj ert krås!"
Tomtenissen från Alingsås
spiller upp styrketåren,
en färdknäpp på resan mot våren.

h2. Slave to the Botttle

*Genie:* You have released me! Finally, my prison term has passed
*Genie:* How bittersweet, the taste of freedom that has come at last
*Genie:* As your reward, a gift is to be granted, even though
*Genie:* My prison was a home to me, the only one I know

*Genie:* Your wish will be fulfilled, then I have nowhere to belong
*Genie:* A slave to the bottle is the master of this song

*Bard:* A homeless genie? Listen to the verse that I submit
*Bard:* The two of us are kindred spirits, by the sound of it
*Bard:* About the gift, considering this world with peril fraught
*Bard:* A friend to stand me by will ever be my wishful thought

*Bard:* I sit at every table where the wine runs red and strong
*Bard:* A slave to the bottle is the master of this song

*Bard:* The flask I carry in my belt is empty -- will you stay?
*Bard:* It has been void of spirits for a while, to my dismay
*Genie:* Your offer is accepted, granted that you understand
*Genie:* If ever you will change your mind, your wish is my command

*Genie:* My place is by your side, where I will gladly sing along
*Genie:* A slave to the bottle is the master of this song
