---
layout: default
title: Debriefing on Lua
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

A couple of weeks have passed since I last programmed in Lua. This post is a retrospective of my initial experience with Lua, written before I forget even more about it. I decided to pick Lua up after I had learned that it is a prototype-based programming language, not object-oriented as I had previously assumed. At the time, I was running into some problems modeling game objects in Wormbane, a roguelike that I was developing in Python. I had reason to believe that prototype-based modeling would be well suited to game development, since both Steve Yegge and Pär Winzell had recommended it.

I started yet another roguelike effort, in Lua this time, as you might imagine, and named it Moonshine. The Alien library provided a convenient way of loading and calling Curses for the text user interface. I also spent some time figuring out an elaborate background story involving Christofer Columbus, the Vatican, Vlad Tepes, and the Great Depression, though to this day it hasn't really come together. Coming from Python, I soon started missing a lot of Pythonic utilities and how they fit together. Maybe I will find their counterparts in Lua once I get to know it half as well as I know Python. In the meantime, I figured that implementing those utilities in Lua myself could be good exercise. You can find the result in the "Mimic":http://github.com/elemel/mimic library. The Python-style "import":http://github.com/elemel/lua-import function for Lua is another offspring of Moonshine. It could use some more work. Maybe I will end up merging it into Mimic.

The last problem I encountered before switching to another project was defining property handlers in Lua. I like the way this works in Python, no surprises there, and was aiming for something similar. We'll see how that one turns out. In closing, I haven't really figured Lua out yet, but I know that I like it so far, and I'd like to get to know it better.
