---
layout: post
title: Blogging Like a Configuration Manager
---

I've hosted my personal web site and blog at "GitHub Pages":http://pages.github.com/ for a few weeks now. GitHub Pages relies on "Jekyll":http://github.com/mojombo/jekyll, and I've come to like Jekyll a lot. That said, a minor issue I've run into is how to organize unpublished posts. Let me outline the solution that I've come up with.

As usual, use today's date in the file name of the new post, whether or not you expect to finish it today.

<pre class="terminal">$ gedit _posts/2009-02-11-blogging-like-a-configuration-manager.textile</pre>

If you don't finish the post in one go, create a new branch named after it and commit your work.

<pre class="terminal">$ git checkout -b blogging-like-a-configuration-manager</pre>
<pre class="terminal">$ git add _posts/2009-02-11-blogging-like-a-configuration-manager.textile</pre>
<pre class="terminal">$ git commit -m "editing new post"</pre>

Keep editing the post until you're happy with it. You can have multiple branches at the same time, one for each post that you're working on.

Optionally, push your branches to GitHub for backup.

<pre class="terminal">$ git push origin blogging-like-a-configuration-manager</pre>

Ready to publish a post? Change its date to today's date, and merge its branch into the master branch. Push the master branch to GitHub.

<pre class="terminal">$ git checkout blogging-like-a-configuration-manager</pre>
<pre class="terminal">$ git mv _posts/2009-02-11-blogging-like-a-configuration-manager.textile _posts/2009-02-12-blogging-like-a-configuration-manager.textile</pre>
<pre class="terminal">$ git commit -m "renamed to today's date"</pre>
<pre class="terminal">$ git checkout master</pre>
<pre class="terminal">$ git merge blogging-like-a-configuration-manager</pre>
<pre class="terminal">$ git push origin master</pre>

Now I can work on multiple posts in parallel, preview them locally with the Jekyll-launched web server, keep them backed up at GitHub, and publish them independently of each other.

*Edit:* Added example commands.
